<html><body><p>This weekend's tech project was getting an old Sun Ultra 5 up and running with a new version of Solaris, in this case Solaris Nevada b33, so I can play with toys like opensolaris, dtrace, zfs,etc.<br><br>This particular machine doesn't have a cdrom, so in order to get things working I had to do a network install. Or I could have installed a cdrom, since it's an IDE based machine, but that wouldn't have been nearly as much fun.<br><br>I hosted the install on a Netra T1, so most of the installation instructions were just cut-and-paste from the Sun documentation. <a href="http://docs.sun.com/app/docs/doc/817-5504">Solaris 10 Installation Guide: Network-Based Installations</a><br><br>(Note: The T1 will eventually be providing network services, and live in the basement. It's a little loud sitting on my desk. That's why it's not going to be the Sparc play machine.)<br><br>The complicated part was the DHCP server. I already have one on my network, on a Debian Linux box, and didn't want to try having two of them. That would probably be bad.<br><br>In order to supply all of the information for the install, I needed to add a new name space to the dhcp.conf, a class and subclass for the particular hardware type, and some information specific to the machine.<br><br>Here's the relevant pieces from dhcpd.conf:<br>First the SUNW option namespace, used by the Sun net installation:<br></p><pre><br>option space                    SUNW;<br>option SUNW.SrootOpt            code 1 = text;<br>option SUNW.SrootIP4            code 2 = ip-address;<br>option SUNW.SrootNM             code 3 = text;<br>option SUNW.SrootPTH            code 4 = text;<br>option SUNW.SswapIP4            code 5 = ip-address;<br>option SUNW.SswapPTH            code 6 = text;<br>option SUNW.SbootFIL            code 7 = text;<br>option SUNW.Stz                 code 8 = text;<br>option SUNW.SbootRS             code 9 = integer 16;<br>option SUNW.SinstIP4            code 10 = ip-address;<br>option SUNW.SinstNM             code 11 = text;<br>option SUNW.SinstPTH            code 12 = text;<br>option SUNW.SsysidCF            code 13 = text;<br>option SUNW.SjumpsCF            code 14 = text;<br>option SUNW.Sterm               code 15 = text;<br>option SUNW.SbootURI            code 16 = text;<br>option SUNW.SHHTPProxy          code 17 = text;<br></pre>
<br><br>Then the class and subclass based on the vendor-class-identifier, which is sent out by the Ultra 5 when it's trying to DHCP an address. <br><pre><br>class "vendor-classes" {<br>  match option vendor-class-identifier;<br>}<br><br>subclass "vendor-classes"  "SUNW.Ultra-5_10" {<br>      vendor-option-space     SUNW;<br>      option SUNW.SbootURI    = "tftp://10.10.1.131/inetboot.SUN4U.Solaris_11-1 ";<br>      option SUNW.SinstIP4  10.10.1.131;<br>      option SUNW.SinstNM  = "heimdall";<br>      option SUNW.SinstPTH = "/export/solaris11/install";<br>      option SUNW.SrootIP4  10.10.1.131;<br>      option SUNW.SrootNM = "heimdall";<br>      option SUNW.SrootPTH = "/export/solaris11/install/Solaris_11/Tools/Boot" ;<br>}<br></pre>
<br>Then, the particular information for the machine I'm trying to boot and install from the net:<br><pre><br>host chimera {<br>hardware ethernet 08:00:20:a2:22:66;<br>option domain-name "sdowney.org";<br>option host-name "chimera";<br>next-server  10.10.1.131;<br>fixed-address 10.10.1.132;<br>}<br></pre>
<br>The machine I'm installing onto is chimera, which has the MAC address 08:00:20:a2:22:66. It will get the address 10.10.1.132. The install and boot server are both heimdall, which had IP addresses 10.10.1.131 respectively. The 'next-server' tells chimera to netboot from heimdall. I'm calling that out in particular because I wasted about an hour figuring out that I needed that. <br><br>Once all that was done, it was a 'simple' matter of running <span>boot net:dhcp - install</span> from the openboot OK prompt. <br><br>The machine isn't exactly a screamer by today's standards, it has a 333Mhz UltraSparc IIi chip in it, but it does have 512Mb of RAM, which covers a multitude of sins. I think I may start over with a larger HD, since the 7G drive that's in there now doesn't leave much room for experimentation.  I'll probably go ahead and put a DVDRW drive in there too, even though I don't need it now.</body></html>